# 3.8.5.3. Recurrence Rule

Property Name
-------------

RRULE

Purpose
-------

This property defines a rule or repeating pattern for recurring events, to-dos,
journal entries, or time zone definitions.

Value Type
----------

RECUR

Property Parameters
-------------------

IANA and non-standard property parameters can be specified on this property.

Conformance
-----------

This property can be specified in recurring VEVENT, VTODO, and VJOURNAL calendar
components as well as in the "STANDARD" and "DAYLIGHT" sub-components of the
VTIMEZONE calendar component, but it SHOULD NOT be specified more than once. The
recurrence set generated with multiple RRULE properties is undefined.

Description
-----------

The recurrence rule, if specified, is used in computing the recurrence set. The
recurrence set is the complete set of recurrence instances for a calendar
component. The recurrence set is generated by considering the initial DTSTART
property along with the RRULE, RDATE, and EXDATE properties contained within the
recurring component. The DTSTART property defines the first instance in the
recurrence set. The DTSTART property value SHOULD be synchronized with the
recurrence rule, if specified. The recurrence set generated with a DTSTART
property value not synchronized with the recurrence rule is undefined. The final
recurrence set is generated by gathering all of the start DATE-TIME values
generated by any of the specified RRULE and RDATE properties, and then excluding
any start DATE-TIME values specified by EXDATE properties. This implies that
start DATE- TIME values specified by EXDATE properties take precedence over
those specified by inclusion properties (i.e., RDATE and RRULE). Where duplicate
instances are generated by the RRULE and RDATE properties, only one recurrence
is considered. Duplicate instances are ignored.

The DTSTART property specified within the iCalendar object defines the first
instance of the recurrence. In most cases, a DTSTART property of DATE-TIME value
type used with a recurrence rule, should be specified as a date with local time
and time zone reference to make sure all the recurrence instances start at the
same local time regardless of time zone changes.

If the duration of the recurring component is specified with the DTEND or DUE
property, then the same exact duration will apply to all the members of the
generated recurrence set. Else, if the duration of the recurring component is
specified with the DURATION property, then the same nominal duration will apply
to all the members of the generated recurrence set and the exact duration of
each recurrence instance will depend on its specific start time. For example,
recurrence instances of a nominal duration of one day will have an exact
duration of more or less than 24 hours on a day where a time zone shift occurs.
The duration of a specific recurrence may be modified in an exception component
or simply by using an RDATE property of PERIOD value type.

Format Definition
-----------------

This property is defined by the following notation:

```
 rrule      = "RRULE" rrulparam ":" recur CRLF
```

```
 rrulparam  = *(";" other-param)
```
